There's this show called Mushoku Tensai that I have been watching that has been living in my head for the past week. More specifically, the I find the magic systems of the world to be refined such that they retain both an incredibly low skill floor and staggeringly high skill ceiling.

The foundations are similar to most other systems found in other media. At the start, there are 2 means of casting: Incantations and Magic Circles. 

Incantations (static) are the more popular variant of the two for their ease of use: simply recite the spell's incantation and your body will attempt to cast. 

Magic Circles (dynamic) are a more situational casting method. The process is similar to how you would write a computer program: starting from the top center of your substrate, you would write the spell(s) you wish to cast; then in a clockwise direction you would specify the constraints that the spell must comply with such as effect radius, potency, velocity and direction, lifetime, etc.. Once a circle is charged with mana and activated, the circle "compiles" its instructions. If successful, the spell will be cast. Later we learn that their is a hard limit on the complexity a single circle can have, but this can be avoided through the use of layered/compound circles (think of those decoupling principles of programming).

Incantations are simple to use, but slow to cast, easy to counter, and nearly unmodifiable (potency can be increased to an unspecified maximum). Magic Circles are convenient if prepared beforehand on a portable substrate such as a scroll, the caster would just need to activate the circle and the spell will be cast without expending the caster's mana. However, the process of transcribing and charging multiple circles is an action done in preparation, not in conflict.

Our main character discovers a third method known as Silent/Incantationless/Wordless Casting. It's initially described as "the body casting the spell from memory", but it seems that the caster is able to forgo incantations because they are "transcribing" the spells into their mind much like they would a magic circle to paper. It takes serious effort initially, but once the caster can cast a static form of a spell silently, they can cast the silent spell dynamically in the future.

(Not sure what to put this, but static spells would be a subset of dynamic spells?)

Admittedly the show's focus is not primarily on the magic systems in place, but there's so much that the character's could do if they fucked around with all three casting methods. We see casters use silent and incantations for regular combat and magic circles for support scrolls (base level healing and a magelight so far), anti-magic and/or anti-physical barriers (one of the least explored topics), "teleportation" circles (Both the forbidden intraworld travel and Nanahoshi's interworld travel).

We've seen with silent alone a caster will cast two types of spells simultaneously to confuse the attacker (Vs Orsted's disturb magic  Rudeas distracts with failed fireball casts to successfully cast a wind dash). Granted, casting multiple different spells in the time of a single incantation is an incredible advantage, but against combatants familiar with incantations (and how to counter them), imagine the deception of "casting an incantation", then unleashing a silent as the combatant attempts to retaliate. 

The disturb magic spell seems to "physically" scatter a caster's mana as it is forming into the completed spell, potentially by launching and/or "drowning" the spell with a stream of the disturber's mana. It seems the area of effect has to be small so as to not consume excessive amounts of mana (Rudeas could've raised his fireball arm away from himself so the disturb radius wouldn't affect his other spell?). It could be that disturb magic has to be altered based on the spell cast (which could explain how the fireballs were disturbed, but the wind dash wasn't) 

I like to imagine that Mangod and Orsted were close once (they both could see the future, family?). While Mangod saw the possiblities and tried to guide others to favorable outcomes, Orsted could have been adamant on keeping things as they are meant to be (don't intervene). Maybe some advice Mangod gave ruined Orsted's life, and that curse of never seeing each other again was formed?

Why does the god of all things evil and wicked also deal with reincarnation?

The show doesn't explore how incantations and silent spells would mix together, so what would happen if you're channeling a silent spell and you attempt to layer an incantation over it? For example, if you are holding a silent stone cannon, but begin reciting the waterball incantation, would stone cannon, waterball, something in-between (ice, perhaps?), or nothing be cast? 

We are told that because mana is in everything in this world, mana seems to abide by the laws of conservation such that spells do not create or destroy matter, they merely convert mana into the spell's desired substance and/or v.s.v.

There are also "magical implements" (wands, staves, Kliff's curse mitigator), but there is no explicit detail on how these are created, the only common thread is their ability to store mana. Wands and staves are able amplify a spell's potency, but the how is hidden within those managems. When Rudeas tries to cast cumulonimbus for Ghislaine and Eris, he starts by having his staff "gather mana" (a statement never heard again afterwards). It's possible that the gems draw in additional mana from the world, but that just seems like a one way ticket to some form of a mana drought/dying world event.  I imagine the transfer of mana from caster to gem would be like if molecules were restructured for a more optimal chemical reaction. It could simply be "gem make mana pure make spell stronger", but it would be cool if archetypes of spells had different mana structures that would result in more potent and/or more efficient spells.

Nanahoshi's rings are strange. They seem to cast only 2 spells (an anti-magic barrier, and an anti-physical barrier), meaning it's either possible to inscribe circles into managems, or, if we see her cast other spells with those same rings, a manaless individual could cast incantations and/or silent-cast so long as these types of gems are charged. I would like to believe the former: just imagine a caster wearing managem-studded gloves, each one capable of casting different spell, or activating multiple gems together for even more spells.  It's interesting that the anti-physical barrier is shaped in an array of visible hexagonal panels (could be a reference to stable molecules in chemistry such as benzene), whereas most other barriers are invisible.

We see anti-magic barriers used in 2 ways: the magic circles disrupted the flow of mana, and Nanahoshi's ring/Rudeas's water-barrier countered the spell with and "opposing element".